but whose yen no ask yourself really to
keep his cool he did an excellent job
throughout the whole conversation I
can't find any fault with him frankly uh
the audience really got restless and
he's got offended you know they were
really challenged by this in a way they
weren't expecting to be challenged in
this conversation if there's a disaster
some people are running away from the
disaster and some people are running
toward it now why are they running
toward it yes in part it is simply
because they believe they can make a
positive difference they believe they
can try I don't want to be one of the
people running away but of course this
is only in small part due to the
possibility that I can make a positive
difference with many of these problems
the enormity of them is so great that
anyone can say as an objective fact
maybe I can't make any positive
difference or the positive as I can make
is very very small whether we're talking
about vegan politics First Nations W the
most fundamental value I have shaping
this whole direction this whole side of
my character that links me to both
research and humanitarian work and
issues as diverse as Cambodia and the
Kree in a jib way in Canada the most
fundamental value I have under this
heading is of wanting to take
responsibility even if I can't there's
no way that I or you or anyone can take
responsibility for the history of the
British Empire and the terrible
decisions they made in how they've
handled Canada's indigenous people the
Cree the edge where the den a the Mohawk
the airflo okay there's it's it's
actually impossible for me to take
responsibility for that but I want to
it's impossible for me to take
responsibility in any sense for the
daily atrocity
the unbelievable moral obscenity of
factory farming we've had this cultural
development over hundreds of years that
led up to the current stainless steel
perfection of the meat and dairy
industry right there's no way I can take
responsibility for it but I want to and
I want you to as well I want you to try
a bonus Yin
[Music]
uh-uh new yen politics gets interesting
politics gets really really interesting
when we're no longer talking about
differences of opinion we're no longer
talking about contrasting factual claims
but we're talking about differences in
the values I just had a wonderful
conversation with a guy named to ask
yourself that lasted many many hours the
name of his YouTube channel was ask
yourself his name is Isaak Brown and
he's now a full-time youtuber supported
by his YouTube revenue and by donations
on patreon now at the first mention of
this some of my longtime viewers and
supporters will be asking did we talk
about racism and we did at Great Lengths
and without either party becoming
uncouth or hostile we had a very polite
meaningful and enjoyable discussion
about racism including the racism of
some of my fellow youtubers Cory
McCarthy and Tara McCarthy and that's
gonna get mentioned here really as kind
of a segue to what I want to talk about
in this video it's not the main theme or
not the main point of interest that I'm
here bringing up and summarizing we did
discuss I also want to put in a
disclaimer for most of this part of the
conversation
Isak aka ask yourself isaac was really
playing playing devil's advocate or
playing a sort of traditional role in
Socratic methods correct dialogue in
large part he was not stating his own
convictions he was stating views that
were opposing the mine in such a way
that would draw out implicit assumptions
caused me to more fully define what my
position is and why that's my position
or what actions are consequences my
policy positions might entail again
totally um you know polite and frankly
fascinating conversation one of the best
conversations I've had in years
and I reached out to a lot of people
here through vegan YouTube so I really
can credit for that and I thanked him
extensively the other conversation
however what I don't want you to do in
the audience watching this video I don't
want you to try to impute any opinion to
Isaac on the basis of what I'm saying
here basically I'm just somewhere
and what I said and a large part of what
he said even if it is getting some rise
from pension here it was really just him
playing devil's advocate and playing
this Socratic dialogue sort of role so
don't jump to any conclusions about what
his own political views are on these or
any matters from this particular video
in - wave if you think this video was
too long the actual conversation I had
with ask yourself 100 for hours and
hours include an amazing range of topics
including our views on the ever-popular
unnatural vegan we just proposed it was
gonna have a debate with my experience
the natural vegan and for him the
conversation probably started around
2:00 a.m. and ended closer to 8:00 a.m.
it wasn't just the me it was a whole
room of people but for several hours it
was him and I talking directly and
continuously I by the way I was actually
working out I was outdoors I was running
up and down the side of a mountain a
mountain here with stairs on side I was
getting exercised so I was often out of
breath whose answered his questions it
was great conversation it made my day
quite simply alright so the part of the
conversation gonna summarize did indeed
begin with my challenging him and him
challenging me on the question of to
what extent his friends cuz he is
personally friends with Cory McCarthy
and he's spoken at some length with Tara
McCarthy so to what extent his friends
Cory McCarthy and Tara McCarthy are pro
genocide or indeed racist in the
garden-variety sense of the term racism
now I introduced you know some kind of
facts for his consideration this is not
just a matter of opinion examples of
things they've said on YouTube that he
was unaware of so again before we get to
the discussion about values sort of this
earlier phase what we're dealing with
merely matters of fact an opinion within
the realm of political theory or
political science just mentioned I think
one of the deeper differences between
myself and Isaac is that he really does
think of matters in terms of abstract
ideals
first and foremost and I think of things
in terms of abstract ideals last and
least and this may not be obvious if
we're talking about something we we
agree about my veganism or the future
the vegan movement or something or even
what's
what positive things can we do in the
next couple of months for the future the
vegan boom because we did talk about
that kind of stuff brass tacks practical
stuff he was starting with putting
together a vegan round table and we
talked through some of the issues and
options concerning that um but to give a
specific example when the conversation
progressed from overall questions of
racism may be primarily white versus
black racism when it progressed on to
racism against First Nations status of
indigenous people in Canada the criative
with the den a he asked me repeatedly
you know maybe two or three times what
was the ideal situation I wanted you
know what was the final end point or
outcome what was the goal or you might
say what was the utopia he did not use
to work like utopia but he said okay
well what you know what is it you want
what is the position you're tending
towards as a as an outcome as and he did
use words like ideal you know what is it
ideally you'd want and I never answered
that question I mean if you're looking
at this from a political science
perspective you notice I didn't ever
answer that question by talking about
the ideals I was in pursuit of I would
answer by giving a particular example of
a real-world problem that I wanted to
solve and you know you could criticize
me by saying my perspective on these
issues is just one of crisis management
is just one of pragmatic short-term
particular changes I want to make and
not one of an idealistic objective or
utopian goal or what have you you know
maybe that's a criticism that has some
has some teeth as some pertinence resum
say oh yes
look at my views but I think on a deeper
level this shows it shows a real
difference between my way of thinking in
his and of course I am much older than
him with much different experiences in
life although we both started off in
southern Ontario Canada so who knows
maybe as the years go past maybe he'll
come a little bit further over to my
side again I don't really mean about any
issue but in the procedural way he
thinks about some of these political
issues concision is in large part the
art of a mission so I'm not summarizing
the whole conversation here and I
probably could I probably could go
through it blow-by-blow because we just
had this conversation within the last
couple of hours and I am
cursed with a good memory it is a curse
sometimes you can be haunted by overly
accurate memories in this life I think
it drives some people mad but at any
rate again don't assign any of this to
him he probably would have a different
summary from his perspective but jumping
had several stages in the conversation
there was a really interesting turning
point and before we got to this turning
point already I was really framing the
whole conversation in a way that put
indigenous peoples issues first and
foremost that's partly because that's
sincerely what I care about I wasn't
gonna engage in this conversation about
race and racism within the North
American context United States and
Canada as if black and white are the
only issues the issues that matter to me
a lot or the Cree in the den a and the
Aegean the Inuit etc etc and also for me
in large part it's about language and
culture not about race and ethnicity so
these are values I bring into the
conversation to some extent steer the
way the conversation went uh it was a
turning point when I mentioned a video
that he had never seen a video in which
taro McCarthy had a map of the United
States America behind her in the video a
color-coded map she managed to get a map
from US Census data that showed the
United States break broken up into a
bunch of very small squares and it
showed where black people lived and
where there were the fewest black people
with who was an absolute white majority
etc so what percentage of the different
districts in perrault's the United
States is black and in this video
Tara was explaining her reasons and
what-have-you for why she and her
husband they wanted to live in an area
with the fewest possible black people
that was their position now I mentioned
this I was raising this of course my
overall point here was either were
willing to call these people racist ie
racist in their policy positions racist
in their most of you or I think we are
getting into a semantic argument where
racism is being defined so narrowly that
it becomes meaningless or indeed
laughable you might think that in this
conversation we were already talking
about personal values in a sense we were
but not
since I mean here and now this is really
the turning point in the conversation
where it went from really being matters
of fact and matters of opinion being
shared by the two sides to matters of
personal values where this is no longer
a debate this is no longer an exchange
of objective factual information where
you're not I'd certainly was not trying
to convince the other side of anything
we're no longer talking about things
we're talking about who we are and who
we aspire to be why we are the way we
are why we think the way we think why we
feel the way we feel why we have in the
past undertaken the actions and
decisions we did and in the future why
we're likely to make those same choices
that's when we cross this bridge into
real questions of personal values Isak
challenged me on this point the point of
why taro was sitting there with this
color-coded map United States talking
about our color-coded perspective and
where she was gonna live that she was
planning to avoid living around African
Americans he challenged me in the fun
way he said is it or is it not possible
for a person to make that decision
without any racist inclination or any
racist motivation he asked is it or is
it not natural necessary inevitable that
people would choose a neighborhood with
a lower crime rate that they would
choose a neighborhood with better
schools they would choose a neighborhood
where they could have an easy and
comfortable life and right off the bat I
respond to him
I completely understand the point you're
making Isaac but this is where we
profoundly differ on the level of
personal values and now we're gonna
switch into talking about that so I was
even during the conversation I was
really aware of this shift where now I'm
just talking about Who I am and why I am
this way and the differences between me
and him there's nothing to win and
there's nothing to lose because I said
to him
no I
found ly disagree with you about this
although I can understand those motives
and I said to him in a sense Isaac what
you're doing is defending racism by
indicating the extent to which racism
can overlap with so can coincide with
cowardice laziness and the desire to
have a luxurious easy life and of course
in some cases maybe people are not
racist maybe it is purely those other
motives cowardice and a lack of interest
in making the world a better place
solving social problems or engaging or
even seeing social problems some people
want to live in a gated community behind
a high wall where they don't ever have
to see poverty let alone try to solve
the problem ameliorate the problem or
what-have-you and I'm not one of those
people
oh I said to him he was using the
example of you know would I or would I
not be willing to move to Compton he
said I can do you one better why do you
think I moved to Cambodia
now what do you think you know what's
more dangerous really I mean I know
Compton has a reputation for come on
let's get real you know you're talking
about a scenario which he did talk about
he did raise what about providing my own
daughter with an education and I was
able to use not abstract examples but
very real examples from my own life I
said look what I was dealing with first
nations whether you're talking about
urban neighborhoods that are majority
First Nations or if you're talking about
reservations remote rural communities
those of shockingly high unemployment
rates shockingly high crime rates
terrible education system much much
worse than Compton believe me I mean
Compton you know it's a great ladder in
terms of being able to move up in the
social hierarchy compared to the the you
know baleful lack of opportunities that
you find on some of the worst Native
reservations in Canada or indeed just
urban neighborhoods in Canada that are
our majority First Nations really really
terrible conditions really hopeless
conditions and again with very high side
what pardon me very high suicide rates
very high glue huffing rates and so on
attached that overall hopelessness that
set in and some cases you are looking at
a district that literally has 90 percent
employment I've looked at some some
examples like that so I mean the
situation with First Nations much more
bleak and much more extreme than asking
me for example if I would be willing to
move to Compton or I'd be willing to
raise my daughter in Compton the
specific scenarios I put myself in in
Cambodia and in northern Laos again much
much more extreme and I laughed on
points that don't you realize people in
Compton speak English like what do you
think would be harder for me moving to
Compton or moving to the border area
between Laos and Myanmar at a time when
there's still ongoing civil war
low-level civil war on both sides of
that border yeah I don't speak the
language I'm struggling for words like
what do you think and Nikki was really
shocked and again with this transition
from just talking about politics to
really talking about personal values I
really noticed a shift in how the how
the audience was engaged to they were
really challenged by this in a way that
they were not challenged at all by the
conversation we're having previously so
he started asking questions like well he
was sincerely interested in her stay in
my position he was asking me things like
what would I be willing to go and live
in Somalia you know why or why not
what what was the explanation for why I
as a person would prefer to live in a
poverty-stricken civil war area with
terrible education than to live in
luxury and comfort and what for what
reason do I regard people as cowards for
wanting to avoid dealing with important
social and political issues and even
economic issues than their own society
why do I regard people as cowards and
immoral for retreating behind you know
the gated fence of a wealthy community
making what he sees as rational
decisions that are in their own
self-interest now this is a point it's a
difference in values I am not disputing
whether or not those decisions are
rational they're rational but they're
their motives are based in a set of
values that are different from mine and
it's a set of values that I consider
despicable no ask yourself really did
keep his cool he did an excellent job to
it the whole conversation I can't find
any fault with him frankly the audience
really got restless and it's got a fan
well they were really challenged that by
this in a way they weren't expecting to
be challenged in this conversation I
think for one thing the same way people
find it strangely out of place in the
21st century when I were used words like
dignity and honor I don't think anyone
was expecting to hear the word cowardice
in this in this conversation I don't
think anyone had even ever thought
before that the decision to live in a
wealthy whites-only neighborhood
reflected cowardice that the decision
not to face up to poverty and violence
and other serious problems that this was
connected to cowardice that cut people
quick and you know another word I used
was despicable I said look I'm being
being asked to you there's a difference
between you and me is ever seen me and
many other people but yeah the people on
the other side of this difference in
values I do regard them as despicable I
understand
they are people who just want a life of
ease and comfort and luxury to what
extent that entails cowardice and to
what extent that entails racism given
this conversation is another matter but
yeah I'm owning up to the fact I despise
that and I use an example some of you
already know from this YouTube channel I
said look it was even like this when I
was talking to my own grandmother now to
some extent that grandma is on one of my
two grandmother's this drove to some
extent that had some positive emotional
attachment to her she used to buy Lego
for me every every Christmas and every
birthday she gave me presents
she gave me socks you know whatever
she's my grandmother haha but to me in
terms of her values yeah she was a
despicable person she wanted to
pontificate about politics so much so
that she enrolled in classes on politics
at the University of Toronto as an
auditing student being in her retirement
in her old age over 65 just so she could
go there and lecture them she says you
could tell a captive audience for
opinions ago
[Music]
she went and played tennis at a at a
golf club mmm you know once every couple
of days you know she could talk about
these political issues she was basically
a bit of a cookie cutter left-winger you
know so these issues with the poor and
miscellaneous political issues she she
took a stand on but she wasn't willing
to sacrifice her own comfort in in even
the smallest way imaginable she wasn't
willing to drive to Compton or do
anything else I mean she her life after
her retirement was from my perspective a
life of self-indulgence and hypocritical
self-indulgence in terms of what her
political values and convictions were
right and very polite never insulted her
on it but sure she and I had sat down
and had meaningful conversations you
know one point it was I was telling her
well look I've been living in Southeast
Asia I'm trying to do this kind of
humanitarian work in this kind of
research and so on and now next this is
where I'm moving and so on point she
asked me why I didn't just learn French
and move to Quebec you know and in that
conversation I really had to turn it
around on her and I really had to
explain to her look if these are the
principles you live by you know it
doesn't matter whether you decide to
make a difference
in Compton or in Laos or Cambodia or
Haiti or Somalia
another example talked about with with
ask yourself different people are going
to find different opportunities to make
a difference in the world and then there
are people who just want an easy life
who just want a life that's safe and
self-indulgent cowardly they're people
want to live in voluntary ignorant and
there are people who want to live like
hypocrites from the safety of their
condominiums from the safety of their
Golf Course and their Tennis Club from
their walled community and yeah I I'm
not just morally opposed to that there's
a real difference to myself in those
people on the level of values that comes
out in this conversation now you can't
really understand what's going on in
this conversation if you think it's a
bate if you think I'm trying to present
facts that will convince the other side
to come over and share my opinion I'm
not were into this realm of personal
values where I'm just disclosing I'm
just explaining to you this is who I am
this is how I think this is how I feel
maybe in the past tense this is how I
ended up this way this is why it turned
out this way and there's absolutely no
expectation on my part that I'm gonna
convince ask yourself to feel the way I
feel or think the way I think I'm really
just interested in exploring the
difference between us and between
difference we myself and the other
members of the audience or the public at
large or even the culture I grew up in
because I know I'm in a very small
minority of people in Canada who feel
this way the response in the audience
was much more hostile much more
defensive than anything asked yourself
said I can find no fault whatsoever and
what ask yourself said he behaved
himself wonderfully I mean has say
really was playing this kind of Socratic
role find no fault in him and what I
felt from the audience
several the audience elite they got on
the microphone and they they spoke they
spoke from their perspective to they
were asking questions that amounted to
wanting to know how did I draw the line
who was I to judge and it's not really
about me judging other people it's
really about what kind of person am i
what kind of person do I aspire to be
what kind of person are you
and what kind of person do you aspire to
be and I can express to you I can
explain to you I can answer those
questions we can get into more detail
and give a more complete robust portrait
of how I draw the line of why exactly I
think this way or you know how my how my
opinion applies to different kinds of
desert island scenarios but ultimately
all we're doing is drawing an ever more
detailed portrait of me and my values
we're not putting together a case that's
gonna convince anyone else to come over
to my side we're just gonna understand
more and more it's to some extent more
more psychological complexity what those
differences are why they exist if
there's a disaster
some people are running away from the
disaster and some people are running
toward it now why are they running
toward in yes in part it is simply
because they believe they can make a
positive difference they believe they
can try maybe they're gonna try and end
up making things a thousand times worse
but some people are running away to
safety to their life of comfort and some
people are running toward the problem
because they're sincerely interested in
solving the problem improving Miglia
rating dealing with or at least
researching and trying to understand the
problem to make policy recommendations
for other people to solve the problem or
something of that kind right I don't
want to be one of the people running
away but of course this is only in small
part due to the possibility that I can
make a positive difference with many of
these problems the enormity of them is
so great that anyone can say as an
objective fact maybe I can't make any
positive difference or the positive
difference I can make is very very small
whether we're talking about vegan
politics First Nations value the most
fundamental value I have shaping this
whole direction this whole side of my
character that links me to both research
and humanitarian work and issues as
diverse as Cambodia and the Kree in a
Ghibli in Canada the most fundamental
value I have under this heading is of
wanting to take responsibility even if I
can't there's no way that I or you or
anyone can take responsibility for the
history of the British Empire and the
terrible decisions they made
in how they've handled Canada's
indigenous people the Cree the achieve
where the den a the Mohawk the euro flow
it there's it's it's actually impossible
for me to take responsibility for that
but I want to it's impossible for me to
take responsibility in any sense for the
daily atrocity the the unbelievable
moral obscenity of factory farming I
didn't create that system you know I was
born into this world I had nothing to do
with it I don't profit from the
meatpacking industry I've never been
employed and I feed packing factory you
know from a million different angles
we've had this cultural development over
hundreds of years that led up to the
current stainless steel perfection of
the meat and dairy industry right
there's no way I can take responsibility
for it but I want to and I want you to
as well I want you to try even if you
can't do anything about it I want you to
want to try I want you to share with me
in that wanting as a matter of personal
values and I know I'm in a minority even
amongst vegans I mean I'm in a minority
within a minority believe me amongst
white Canadians in reference to the
racial issues the First Nations issues
at anti-colonial I'm in a minority of a
minority believe me I know
and that's why it's so precious for me
it's so worthwhile for me to reach out
on the internet and try to meet those
couple of other people who share those
values with me even if we share them in
a state of despondency a state of
despair of knowing that our ability to
make a positive difference may be tiny
may be infinitesimally compared to the
scope of the problem here and now or
even the historical depth of the problem
over recent centuries now I think you
catch my drift in one sense whether
we're talking about a neighborhood
within your own City a neighborhood like
Compton or you know when I lived in
Regina all the cities in the Canadian
Prairies have at least one neighborhood
have at least one slum that's mature
First Nations people First Nations
people living in poverty in Regina
Saskatchewan III knew of one
neighborhood like that there probably
several and you know houses are falling
apart the poverty is obvious all I
remember seeing footage of a
neighborhood like that in in Manitoba I
think in Winnipeg Manitoba and the
poverty was palpable you could see it on
the front lawns you know as the camera
just went down the road you could see
the poverty and the hopelessness and the
unemployment of that and the drug
addiction it was visible and just
looking at the street how this
neighborhood was flowing apart whether
we're talking about a neighborhood
within the city you live in we're
talking about a faraway place like
Cambodia and Laos took from my
perspective it it doesn't matter we're
talking about the aspiration to be
engaged with these problems whether it's
civil war poverty crime or what have you
as opposed to the impulse whether it's
cowardice or not trying to ignore them
trying to live a life separated from
them and insulated from them we did have
questions from the audience
challenging me asking well what if some
people just don't care what if it's none
of these issues you know that I've
mentioned what if it's not the desire to
what if it's not a desire for luxury and
laziness or voluntary ignorance what you
know what if it's something else aren't
there other motives others and I very
readily said yes there are and I'll give
you examples right now so this is again
this is not me poking holes in my own
argument this is me explaining why such
a large percentage of people don't share
these values and come with me
I said yes just two examples one maybe
you're a medical doctor who's trying to
cure cancer and you sit down and have
this conversation with me whether it's
about poverty and civil war in Southeast
Asia or the situation for the Korean a
ghibli within Canada and you say well
that's all well and good but the only
thing you care about is doing this
research to find a cure for cancer and
you don't care if you stay in 5-star
hotels or one star hotels you don't care
if you live a life of luxury or live a
life of policy perfect
you don't care if you live a life of
luxury or you live a life of poverty
you're just committed to doing whatever
it takes so you can do your research try
to find this cure for cancer at all cost
I understand that and a lot of people
live lives of quiet desperation working
hard for causes that are much more
humble than finding a cure for cancer
with that mentality where they regard
themselves as an instrument of some
grant design or some grand goal that in
their minds justifies them living in
luxury or living in poverty them living
the way they do with no engagement and
no concern for these other social
political issues I understand that again
I'm not trying to convince anyone I'm
just examining what my values are what
their values are and why they're so
different and the only other example I
used was of a man who joins the army and
who just wants to be the best sniper he
can possibly be remember I went through
the process I signed up to join the army
and I met some guys in the army with
some attitudes like that there are guys
and they don't care who they gotta shoot
in the head
they just want to be the best they can
possibly be at that action that is their
art that is their paintbrush and that is
their cannabis is putting a bullet
through a human brain as elegantly and
efficiently as possible and they're
willing to sacrifice everything to do it
they don't care if they have to live in
a cave they don't care if they have to
live in the desert they don't care if
they live in the jungle or if they're up
on the freezing cold Arctic Arctic
tundra that's their canvas that's their
paintbrush that is the art that
justifies everything else in their lives
that's they're focused on and they they
may indeed not give a damn about any
other social and political problems
whether it's a neighborhood within their
own city like Compton or far-off
Cambodia and they probably don't even
care who it is they gotta shoot in the
head by the same token the doctor
working on the cure for cancer probably
doesn't care who it is he's performing
experimental surgery honors cancer
treatments on he may be saving the lives
of nice people terrible people
this is his art
this is his paintbrush this is canvas I
can understand all those perspectives
and I can understand the differences in
values that separates me from those
people but that's the fascinating thing
about this side of politics when we
really get down to it when we move past
the differences in matters of mere facts
and opinion then we get down to this
bedrock where all we can say is this is
who I am and this is who I aspire to be
and we can simply contrast that to
whoever you are and whatever dream it is
you want to dream and whether or not we
here and now in the pursuit of a better
world whether it's under the heading of
veganism ecology health politics whether
or not we can dream a little dream
together cooperate make something
positive about us Yin